.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GPHOTO2" "1" "August 2006" "" "The gPhoto2 Reference (the man"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
gphoto2 \- command\-line gphoto2 client
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 8
\fBgphoto2\fR [\-\-debug] [\-\-debug\-logfile\ \fIFILENAME\fR] [[\-q] [\-\-quiet]] [[\-v] [\-\-verbose]] [[\-h] [\-\-help]]
.br
 [\-\-hook\-script\ \fIFILENAME\fR]
.br
 [\-\-list\-cameras] [\-\-list\-ports] [\-\-stdout] [\-\-stdout\-size]
.br
 [\-\-auto\-detect] [\-\-port\ \fIPATH\fR] [\-\-speed\ \fISPEED\fR] [\-\-camera\ \fIMODEL\fR]
.br
 [\-\-filename\ \fIFILENAME\fR]
.br
 [\-\-usbid\ \fIUSBIDS\fR]
.br
 [[\-a] [\-\-abilities]]
.br
 [[\-\-folder\ \fIFOLDER\fR] [\-f\ \fIFOLDER\fR]] [[[\-R] [\-\-recurse]] [\-\-no\-recurse]] [[\-l] [\-\-list\-folders]]
.br
 [[\-L] [\-\-list\-files]] [[\-m\ \fINAME\fR] [\-\-mkdir\ \fINAME\fR]]
.br
 [[\-r\ \fINAME\fR] [\-\-rmdir\ \fINAME\fR]] [[\-n] [\-\-num\-files]]
.br
 [[\-p\ \fIRANGE\fR] [\-\-get\-file\ \fIRANGE\fR]] [[\-P] [\-\-get\-all\-files]]
.br
 [[\-t\ \fIRANGE\fR] [\-\-get\-thumbnail\ \fIRANGE\fR]]
.br
 [[\-T] [\-\-get\-all\-thumbnails]]
.br
 [\-\-get\-raw\-data\ \fIRANGE\fR] [\-\-get\-all\-raw\-data]
.br
 [\-\-get\-audio\-data\ \fIRANGE\fR] [\-\-get\-all\-audio\-data]
.br
 [\-\-force\-overwrite]
.br
 [\-\-new]
.br
 [[\-d\ \fIRANGE\fR] [\-\-delete\-file\ \fIRANGE\fR]] [[\-D] [\-\-delete\-all\-files]]
.br
 [[\-u\ \fIFILENAME\fR] [\-\-upload\-file\ \fIFILENAME\fR]] [\-\-config]
.br
 [\-\-list\-config]
.br
 [\-\-get\-config\ \fICONFIGENTRY\fR]
.br
 [\-\-set\-config\ \fICONFIGENTRY=CONFIGVALUE\fR]
.br
 [\-\-capture\-preview]
.br
 [[\-F\ \fICOUNT\fR] [\-\-frames\ \fICOUNT\fR]] [[\-I\ \fISECONDS\fR] [\-\-interval\ \fISECONDS\fR]] [\-\-capture\-image] [\-\-capture\-movie] [\-\-capture\-sound]
.br
 [\-\-show\-info\ \fIRANGE\fR]
.br
 [\-\-show\-exif\ \fIRANGE\fR]
.br
 [\-\-summary] [\-\-manual] [\-\-about] [\-\-shell]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
libgphoto2(3)
is a cross\-platform digital camera library, and
gphoto2(1)
is a command\-line client for it.
.PP
Where an option takes a
\fIRANGE\fR
of files, thumbnails, or other data, they are numbered beginning at 1. A range is a comma\-separated list of numbers or spans (\(lq\fIfirst\fR\-\fIlast\fR\(rq). Ranges are XOR (exclusive or), so that
\(lq1\-5,3,7\(rq
is equivalent to
\(lq1,2,4,5,7\(rq.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Turn on debugging output. Debugging output is written to stderr by default, or to the filename given to the
\fB\-\-debug\-logfile\fR
option.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\-logfile\fR \fIFILENAME\fR (since 2.3.0)
The logfile to write the debugging info to, if
\fB\-\-debug\fR
is given.
.TP
\fB\-\-hook\-script\fR \fIFILENAME\fR (new after 2.3.0)
Hook script to execute when something has happened. The hook script reads the environment variable
\fBACTION\fR.
.RS
.TP
\fBACTION\fR=init
indicates that gphoto2 has just initialized. If the hook script returns with a non\-zero exit code now,
\fBgphoto2\fR
will abort.
.TP
\fBACTION\fR=start
indicates that gphoto2 has finished parsing the command line and ise about to execute the requested commands.
.TP
\fBACTION\fR=download
indicates that a file has just been downloaded to the computer and stored in the file indicated by the environment variable
\fBARGUMENT\fR.
.TP
\fBACTION\fR=stop
indicates that gphoto2 is about to finish.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Quiet output (default=verbose).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a short usage message.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\-cameras\fR
List supported camera models.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\-ports\fR
List supported port devices.
.TP
\fB\-\-stdout\fR
Send file to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-\-stdout\-size\fR
Print filesize before data.
.TP
\fB\-\-auto\-detect\fR
List auto\-detected cameras and the ports to which they are connected.
.TP
\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPATH\fR
Specify port device. The
\fB\-\-list\-ports\fR
prints a list of valid, usable ports. In case of multiple USB cameras, the
\fB\-\-auto\-detect\fR
shows you the specific port each camera is connected to.
.TP
\fB\-\-speed\fR \fISPEED\fR
Specify serial transfer speed.
.TP
\fB\-\-camera\fR \fIMODEL\fR
Specify camera model. The
\fB\-\-list\-cameras\fR
option prints a list of all explicitly supported cameras.
.sp
Most model names contain spaces: remember to enclose the name in quotes so that the shell knows it is one parameter. For example:
\fB\fB\-\-camera\fR\fR\fB "Kodak DC240"\fR.
.sp
Note that if you specify
\fB\fB\-\-camera\fR\fR, you must also specify
\fB\fB\-\-port\fR\fR. Otherwise the
\fB\fB\-\-camera\fR\fR
option will be silently ignored.
.TP
\fB\-\-filename\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
When downloading files from the camera, specify the file name or file name pattern to use when storing the downloaded file on the local disk. When uploading a file to the camera, specify the filename to store the uploaded file as on the camera.
.sp
The
\fB\-\-filename\fR
option accepts %a, %A, %b, %B, %d, %H, %k, %I, %l, %j, %m, %M, %S, %y, %%, (see date(1)) and, in addition, %n for the number, %C for the filename suffix, %f for the filename without suffix, %: for the complete filename in lowercase.
.sp
Note that %: is still in alpha stage, and the actual character or syntax may still be changed. E.g. it might be possible to use %#f and %#C for lower case versions, and %^f and %^C for upper case versions.
.sp
%n is the only conversion specifier to accept a padding character and width: %03n will pad with zeros to width 3 (e.g. print the number 7 as
\(lq007\(rq). Leaving out the padding character (e.g. %3n) will use an implementation specific default padding character which may or may not be suitable for use in file names.
.TP
\fB\-\-usbid\fR \fI\fIUSBIDS\fR\fR
(Expert only) Override
USB
IDs.
\fI \fR\fI\fIUSBIDS\fR\fRmust be of the form
\fI \fR\fI\fIDetectedVendorID\fR\fR\fI:\fR\fI\fIDetectedProductID\fR\fR\fI=\fR\fI\fITreatAsVendorID\fR\fR\fI:\fR\fI\fITreatAsProductID\fR\fR
to treat any USB device detected as
\fI\fIDetectedVendorID\fR\fR\fI:\fR\fI\fIDetectedProductID\fR\fR
as
\fI\fITreatAsVendorID\fR\fR\fI:\fR\fI\fITreatAsProductID\fR\fR
instead. All the VendorIDs and ProductIDs should be hexadecimal numbers beginning in C notation, i.e. beginning with '0x'.
.sp
Example:
\fB\-\-usbid \fR\fB\fI0x4a9:0x306b=0x4a9:0x306c\fR\fR
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-abilities\fR
Display camera abilities.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-folder\fR \fIFOLDER\fR
Specify camera folder (default="/").
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-recurse\fR
Recursion (default for download).
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-recurse\fR
No recursion (default for deletion).
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-folders\fR
List folders in folder.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-list\-files\fR
List files in folder.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mkdir\fR \fINAME\fR
Create a directory.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rmdir\fR \fINAME\fR
Remove a directory.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-num\-files\fR
Display number of files.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-get\-file\fR \fIRANGE\fR
Get files given in range.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-get\-all\-files\fR
Get all files from folder.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-get\-thumbnail\fR \fIRANGE\fR
Get thumbnails given in range.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-get\-all\-thumbnails\fR
Get all thumbnails from folder.
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-raw\-data\fR \fIRANGE\fR
Get raw data given in range.
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-all\-raw\-data\fR
Get all raw data from folder.
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-audio\-data\fR \fIRANGE\fR
Get audio data given in range.
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-all\-audio\-data\fR
Get all audio data from folder.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\-overwrite\fR
Overwrite files without asking.
.TP
\fB\-\-new\fR
Only get not already downloaded files. This option depends on camera support of flagging already downloaded images and is not available for all drivers.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delete\-file\fR \fIRANGE\fR
Delete files given in range.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-delete\-all\-files\fR
Delete all files in folder.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-upload\-file\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
Upload a file to camera.
.TP
\fB\-\-capture\-preview\fR
Capture a quick preview.
.TP
\fB\-F \fR\fB\fICOUNT\fR\fR, \fB\-\-frames \fR\fB\fICOUNT\fR\fR
Number of frames to capture in one run. Default is infinite number of frames.
.TP
\fB\-I \fR\fB\fISECONDS\fR\fR, \fB\-\-interval \fR\fB\fISECONDS\fR\fR
Time between capture of multiple frames.
.TP
\fB\-\-capture\-image\fR
Capture an image.
.TP
\fB\-\-capture\-movie\fR
Capture a movie.
.TP
\fB\-\-capture\-sound\fR
Capture an audio clip.
.TP
\fB\-\-show\-info\fR \fIRANGE\fR
Show info.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\-config\fR
List all configuration entries.
.TP
\fB\-\-get\-config\fR \fICONFIGENTRY\fR
Get the specified configuration entry.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-config\fR \fICONFIGENTRY=CONFIGVALUE\fR
Set the specified configuration entry.
.TP
\fB\-\-summary\fR
Summary of camera status.
.TP
\fB\-\-manual\fR
Camera driver manual.
.TP
\fB\-\-about\fR
About the camera driver.
.TP
\fB\-\-shell\fR
Start the gphoto2 shell, an interactive environment. See
SHELL MODEfor a detailed description.
.SH "SHELL MODE"
.PP
The following commands are available:
.TP
cd
Change to a directory on the camera.
.TP
ls
List the contents of the current directory on the camera.
.TP
lcd
Change to a directory on the local machine.
.TP
get
Download the file to the current directory.
.TP
get\-thumbnail
Download the thumbnail to the current directory.
.TP
get\-raw
Download raw data to the current directory.
.TP
show\-info
Show information.
.TP
delete
Delete a file or directory.
.TP
show\-exif
Show EXIF information (only if compiled with EXIF support).
.TP
help, ?
Displays command usage.
.TP
exit, quit, q
Exit the gphoto2 shell.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
\fBCAMLIBS\fR
If set, defines the directory where the
libgphoto2
library looks for its camera drivers (camlibs). You only need to set this on OS/2 systems and broken/test installations.
.TP
\fBIOLIBS\fR
If set, defines the directory where the
libgphoto2_port
library looks for its I/O drivers (iolibs). You only need to set this on OS/2 systems and broken/test installations.
.TP
\fBLD_DEBUG\fR
Set this to
\fIall\fR
to receive lots of debug information regarding library loading on
\fBld\fR
based systems.
.TP
\fBUSB_DEBUG\fR
If set, defines the numeric debug level with which the
libusb
library will print messages. In order to get some debug output, set it to
\fI1\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
libgphoto2(3),
[1]\&\fIThe gPhoto2 Manual\fR,[2]\&\fIThe gphoto.org website\fR,
[3]\&\fIDigital Camera Support for UNIX, Linux and BSD\fR
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
\fBgphoto2 \fR\fB\fB\-\-list\-ports\fR\fR
Shows what kinds of ports (USB
and serial) you have.
.TP
\fBgphoto2 \fR\fB\fB\-\-auto\-detect\fR\fR
Shows what camera(s) you have connected.
.TP
\fBgphoto2 \fR\fB\fB\-\-list\-files\fR\fR
List files on camera.
.TP
\fBgphoto2 \fR\fB\fB\-\-get\-file\fR\fR\fB \fR\fB\fI7\-13\fR\fR
Get files number 7 through 13 from the list output by
\fB\fBgphoto2\fR\fR\fB \fR\fB\fB\-\-list\-files\fR\fR.
.PP
To track down errors, you can add the
\fB\-\-debug\fR
parameter to the
\fBgphoto2\fR
command line and, if dealing with USB problems, setting the environment variable
\fBUSB_DEBUG\fR\fI=1\fR.
.SH "AUTHOR"
The gPhoto2 Team. 
.br
Tim Waugh <twaugh@redhat.com>Hans Ulrich Niedermann <gp@n\-dimensional.de>. (man page)
.SH "REFERENCES"
.TP 3
1.\ The gPhoto2 Manual
\%http://www.gphoto.org/doc/manual/
.TP 3
2.\ The gphoto.org website
\%http://www.gphoto.org/
.TP 3
3.\ Digital Camera Support for UNIX, Linux and BSD
\%http://www.teaser.fr/~hfiguiere/linux/digicam.html
